A surgeon by trade and a renegade at heart,
Dr. Harvey Bigelsen has been looking for the
Holy Grail of healing his entire life.
After serving as the president of Arizona's
Homeopathic Board, Harvey began pushing the envelope
in the world of healing, including his awe inspiring work in
decoding holographic images in human blood.
For this he was charged with defrauding the Medicare
system by assisting clients to have their alternative
therapies covered, a common practice in the medical field.
The total fine was $3,500.
For this, he lost his medical license.
One only has to scratch a little deeper to find out
there may be more to the story.
(mysterious music)
You are a renegade, by all accounts,
at this, in this subject and you're an MD,
you've chosen to basically unplug from the system
so that you can go ahead and do what you do best
without having to be under the scrutiny of the AMA
and other organizations and agencies, right?
Correct.
So, that said, give us a little bit of
background about the nature of your work before
we dive into the specifics.
There are two basic philosophies that have
gone on since Hippocrates.
Hippocrates, Harris Coulter wrote in Divided Legacy,
he called Hippocrates an empirical physician.
Several hundred years later, Galen comes up
with another, opposing view of healthcare
and he becomes a rationalist.
Hippocrates basically said that the body is intelligent
and knows the whole show.
He was a homeopathic philosopher.
If the body's dumping a waste, help the body dump the waste.
He comes up with that type of philosophy.
Galen then comes up with the exact opposite
type of philosophy that if the body's having diarrhea,
stop it up.
Nose is running, stop it up.
Galen's philosophy becomes allopathic medicine,
opposite philosophy to the pathology that's now
dominant in our society.
Hippocrates' philosophy, I deal with that.
That's empirical philosophy.
Bring it up to today, what are the two differences
in philosophy?
Today, there were two great mistakes made
in history, oh, over a century ago.
Possibly, oh, how could I say it,
oh, purposefully made mistakes or purposefully
picked up by the establishment.
Pasteur makes a great mistake.
Pasteur says a hundred some odd years ago
that germs cause disease
and he comes up with, and germs never change,
a strep is always a strep.
Pasteur's philosophy becomes the dominant philosophy today.
The germ theory of disease, if you've got the germ theory
of disease, you can have the magic bullet
philosophy of therapy.
So now we have find the name, find the magic bullet.
Everything is a magic bullet philosophy,
that's what the whole system is.
Pasteur's rival, Antoine Bechamp, says, "no, germs live in
"a disease terrain
"and germs change and adapt, are constantly
"changing and adapting.
"A bacteria can become a fungus,
"they can become a virus, they can change
"and adapt to the terrain."
Well, first of all, everything changes in our society.
Seasons change, trees change, we change,
why doesn't the single-most primordial form of life change?
Of course it does.
Our blood?
Well, I'm talking about the one-celled organism, the germ.
The germ changes, that changes.
If everything else changes, that'll change.
If I throw seeds to asphalt, nothing grows,
but if I put seeds in manure, everything grows.
Pasteur, on his deathbed, recants
and says he is wrong and Bechamp is right.
Well, it's interesting, you don't hear a
whole lot about Bechamp out there.
Everyone knows who Louis Pasteur is.
Right and that's because we've had now a whole
system based on Pasteur.
Even after he recanted?
Even after he recanted because that's suppressed
and that's historical, his recantation, on his deathbed.
Very interesting.
He said the germ is nothing, the terrain is everything,
Bechamp is right.
And this is really where you're coming from.
Yes.
Terrain is everything.
Everything.
And I'm gonna come back with another theory,
cause there was another theory that I'm coming from
that I'm gonna put that together into one package.
Before you do, now the terrain, in this case,
is the blood.
Terrain is, no, it's, you are the terrain.
Your thymus gland, your thyroid gland, your heart,
Oh, okay.
It's one big terrain.
I'll give you an example of terrain of cancer, okay?
Cancer we're looking at is one cell that goes wild,
it grows into a tumor, into a mass, that invades
into a blood vessel or lymphatic cells break off
and they scatter and metastasize
and it's a whole random concept, okay,
one cell going wild.
Let's come into that whole concept.
First of all, the way I look at it, number one,
is if I have a cream cheese with a mold on it,
and I cut the mold off, the rest of the cream cheese
is still rotten, next day you'll have 12 spots.
Cancer is a mold.
Okay?
It's a mold on a peach, you cut the mold of the peach off,
the rest of the peach is still rotten,
it's ready to go that way.
Prostate cancer only goes to the bones,
there's nothing random about that.
Because the mold of prostate cancer feeds on calcium.
When they took women and gave em hormonal replacement
therapy and they told them they had osteoporosis,
and they give them calcium, they skyrocket
in breast cancer.
They set the ball game up.
So, I'm coming back to the whole story,
I'm treating the whole cream cheese, okay?
Let's come back to, though, a little bit different now.
Before Pasteur, Charles Darwin
makes two mistakes.
Charles Darwin says, "everything is
"survival of the fittest."
We have developed a philosophy based on Darwin.
We have, essentially if I'm stronger, I win.
We have wars on drugs, we have wars on germs,
we have wars on people, we've developed an
antagonistic philosophy based on Darwin.
Darwin also said that all change takes place by mutation.
That was wrong too.
That's accident or chance, I do not believe in accident
or chance in this universe.
Darwin's predecessor, Jean-Baptiste Lamarck,
states, "the universe, the creation was parasitic,
"adaptive and symbiotic."
If a bug eats a plant, the plant will die.
The plant's gotta adapt and they become symbiotic.
And he states that the whole creation's going to harmony,
not to antagonism, okay?
Nature thrives through cooperation?
It's cooperation.
Now, the difference that I am now, traditional physicians,
obviously I'm very different.
They're stuffing up the diarrhea,
I'm doing it the other way.
Now, I look at traditional physicians as the Dutch boy
at the dike, plugging up the leak with pharmacy and surgery.
I look at the alternative physician as using vitamins,
herbs, to plug up the dike.
I'm rebuilding the dike.
So I'm coming at it even another way,
so I'm getting my own enemies that way.
The alternative physician is just
substituting a lot of this.
Okay, basically, everything is adaptive,
everything is symbiotic.
We have now, we've been in alternative medicine,
where people are doing parasite purges or cleanses.
No.
The worm is there, the germ is there for a purpose.
Okay, that's what I mean that they're doing the same thing.
If you understand the purpose of it, therefore,
then you can understand what's going on
and figure out the answer.
Well, this brings up an obvious question,
the word these days in alternative medicine
is to detoxify.
Okay, you can go at it.
(both laugh)
I do, when I do a study of the blood life,
if the blood is dirty, you need to clean it.
But if the blood is not dirty,
you can detox all you want, what does that mean?
Okay, if the blood is dirty, I'll clean em up.
If the blood is weak, I'll strengthen em up.
There's different things you do.
The alternative medicine, you detox everyone
and let's go into that.
How much of that is a fad?
We go on a juice fad.
Okay, how many people eat 30 to 50 carrots at once?
I think if the creator wanted you to have the carrot juice,
he would have put a tap on the thing
or on the tree.
I like to do, so a lot of these things are fads.
They're not in balance because you're
saying they're over saturation of nutrient groups
that's not normal.
That's over sell.
It's only in the past 100 plus years that this is around.
Okay, I spoke to, he was a great physician at an
election a couple years ago around here
and someone asked him about fasting and he said,
"I don't know of any animals that really
"go through fasting."
Not intentionally.
He says, "what about juicing?"
And he goes, "duh."
(both laugh)
Let's go back to nature and reality.
I live by the KISS principle, Keep It Simple, Stupid,
so you'll see a lot of my things.
I'm looking at every day, old cells are dying,
new cells are being born,
there's a, every day is a different day in our lives.
If I can improve your functioning today, over yesterday,
improve your functioning tomorrow over today,
next week over this week, and continue on that way
and if your asthma disappears, it's only a side-effect
of improving your functioning.
Mmhmm, so, going to this subject of
toxicity again, you said, "well, if you've got dirty blood,
"I clean it," what are some of the ways in which the blood
can be cleaned under your understanding
of the principles?
(stammers) There's ways that I,
remedies that I use that I'm working on the whole terrain.
I'm making that dike stronger,
I'm making the bridge stronger, whatever it is.
If I make you, you're better functioning,
you will clean yourself.
If I make your liver stronger, it will metabolize better,
it will clean itself better.
So if a person does have dirty blood,
then how, what are the means by which you would
start fortifying the liver or helping them detoxify?
Well, I use remedies,
the remedies I use are very different.
Very few people understand how to use isopathic remedies.
These are live germs.
I can actually make the liver stronger, function better.
They're much much more potent than anything
you could possibly imagine.
I've also used animal tissue, just like animal
stem-cell tissue.
If you ran a four minute mile today, I can make your
heart, your lungs stronger, your muscles stronger,
tomorrow you run a three fifty mile.
It's essentially getting you more octane,
getting you performing better.
If you perform better, that's what we go on.
So I do it in a combination of ways,
not just my remedies.
I'm heavily into the structure of the body.
What's that mean?
Well, there are three great, to me, there are three
divine sciences that came up through history in healthcare.
The philosophy and the science of acupuncture
came up in Asia.
The philosophy of homeopathy came up in Europe.
I'm not saying homeopathic remedies,
but the whole philosophy of homeopathy came from Europe
and the philosophy of structure and specific osteopathy
came up in the United States.
And if you put those three concepts together,
now you're really putting the package.
The structure is very, very, very important.
To me, the greatest American physician of all time
was Andrew Taylor Still.
Would you spell his name so we...
Andrew Taylor Still, just the way it sounds.
Taylor...
Still, S-T-I-L-L.
S-T-I-L-L.
He founded the profession of osteopathy.
He stated, "disease cannot exist where
"there are no obstructions."
Very true.
And in the obstruction we have fluid flows and electrical
flows that go through the body.
If you've got an obstruction, in that obstruction
it will create a stagnation.
In that stagnation, you get a dysbiosis.
The germ is changing and adapting.
That's another subject, too.
I wanna go into that, can we go into that now?
Uh huh, sure.
Because it was always thought that a virus
is a virus, a fungus is a fungus, bacteria's bacteria,
but that is not necessarily true, is it?
No, that's just been propaganda you've been handed to.
I call so much of what's going on today Orwellian 1984.
You've been propagandized that these are the things
that are going on.
And they've known for a long time, actually,
this isn't true,
cause I know that, I remember dealing with some Germans,
20 years ago that had already seen this under
a high-powered microscope that there's
mutation that does occur.
Well, you're gonna
find, it's not mutation, it's an adaptation.
An adaptation, yeah.
But what's gone on in history, like I got,
the US and I, we've had our roundabouts.
In history, people have done pleomorphic philosophy
have been harassed and arrested.
My counterpart in Germany just got out of jail,
Ryke Hamer, he wrote the same things,
he did the same type of work that I did,
but he used cat scans of the brain,
took up patterns of disease,
retired, went to Spain and they arrested him.
Wilhelm Reich, who's one of my heroes,
died in prison.
They did harass Royal, I'm the third one to do
the pleomorphic work.
Royal Rife was harassed, Virginia Livingston
got away with it,
but they don't harass a lot of the people
because they'll let em do the thing.
Anyone that's doing pleomorphic work is very,
throughout history, has been suppressed.
Paris Seltzis, one of my patron saints,
was probably killed by him compatriots.
Very interesting.
Okay, this is a fight for several thousand years
and it's not nice.
What is the objection to it?
Why is it suppressed?
It's money.
It's plain and simple, it's money.
The industry, and this goes back, actually in 1910,
Rockefeller and Connehey got together
to decide where should they put their money,
money was decided to be put into pharmaceutical medicine.
43% of the schools in the United States were
homeopathic at that time.
In 1947, Flower and Fifth Avenue, in New York
was finally the one to lose it's homeopathic charter.
The whole, it exploded the pharmaceutical industry
and John Rockefeller died at the age of 94,
never taken a drug into his mouth, only with a
homeopath in attendance.
We've had one-
Like the Royal Family.
Yes, it is.
The Royal Family are the same, homeopathics.
Yeah, but Rockefeller's money started
the industry of the pharmaceutical industry.
Interesting.
It's all money and greed.
It's plain and simple.
Cancer is an anaerobic disease, oxygen will kill cancer.
And I've had cases with hyperberic chambers that I've used
on cancer cases, I've done great, but yet the industry
makes a half a trillion dollars a year on cancer alone,
they can't make money on oxygen.
Let's talk about something even simpler,
something that most people encounter.
You get a chest infection,
they say, "here, take this antibiotic,
"it's probably a virus."
What's really going on there?
Number one, infection is their word.
Infection means the germ caused the disease,
you know, Pasteur.
No, you have a stagnation and a dysbiosis.
If you break the stagnation,
that's the name of the game.
Now, depending on the pH of the stagnation,
if there's acid, it'll be more acid, the germ will
go more to the viral form.
If the pH is more alkaline, the germ will
go more into the fungal form.
The germ adapts and changes.
Very interesting.
I haven't heard anyone
It's not the germ.
[Regina] explain it that way.
In fact, what goes on is,
the first thing that goes on,
we're talking about the strep toxin.
Okay, strep toxin.
Yes.
Well, you got strep in your throat,
you've got strep in your throat, I have strep in my throat,
what's happening to this toxin?
It's named the toxin like it's a poison.
Every day that step is ingesting things
and waste parts are coming out.
Those waste products are helpful to us.
How so?
They're very important.
Now, as we, there's a stagnation that takes place,
so what does the strep do?
It morphs slightly, it changes its waste product
to bring in fevers, to bring in circulation,
okay, to clean up the stagnation.
Now you've got somebody giving an antibiotic to ya
and now what goes on, the stagnation, the germs in the
stagnation say "the heck with you," and they slowly become
more fungal aspects and the purpose of the fungal nature
of the germ is to break down and recycle you.
So, it's not an infection, it's a stagnation.
Break the stagnation
and the problem goes away.
It's that simple.
A lot of times I can do it osteopathically,
I can change the pHs with some of our treatments.
There's ways to break the stagnations.
Why they got the chest thing, we can get into
that a little later, but (sighs).
That just seems to be such a common malady.
You know, every cold and flu season, everybody's coughing
and we seem to get the chest thing.
Well, first of all, you know, we're talking about how
we even predict colds and flues.
You know what a cold and flu is?
The season's change, so do we.
And as the season's change, okay,
if you're toxic, if you're stressed, you will quote
"get a flu."
If you're clean and you're strong, you won't get a flu.
All it is is an adaptation to the change of the season.
It's not a new virus.
(both laugh)
Okay, and it's related so much to what goes on in society,
how virulent the flu is has a lot to do with the emotions
of society, but that's a whole other story, too.
Well, it's one I want to talk about.
Okay.
Um, let's go back for just a moment,
acid versus alkaline.
Yes.
Um, the whole thing about
raising our alkalinity, that's another thing
that's big in the health community.
Well, there's a confusion on it, okay?
Yes, let's talk about that.
What happens is, as we go ill more, as we get stressed
adrenaline, starts to fire up,
our cells become acid.
By becoming acid, they dump alkaline waste.
The normal pH of the venous blood now is considered 7.4.
That's what I was taught in medical school.
In the 1950 though, it was 7.35,
7.32 to 7.35.
From the pollutions, we're changing.
We're accepting 7.4.
Cancer develops after 7.4.
If you ever get the pH down below 7.35,
cancer can't even live.
Okay, now, stress makes the alkaline blood.
There's ways, the best way to get yourself into
a meditative state and the blood will change its pHs.
The best way to stabilize the pH of the blood,
more than anything else is joy.
Okay, that almost instantaneously starts
to stabilize the system.
Amazing, yeah.
Every thought has a reaction.
If you worried, it's gonna be there
and that stress will do things to the blood.
And you can see this
in the blood?
Oh yes, oh yes.
If you're angry, I can see it in the blood.
If you're angry for a week, it's different.
If you're a genetically angry person,
it's even different still.
It's there.
So which kinds of emotions are you seeing
having the greatest impact?
On the blood.
(both stammer)
Depression, anger, uh, loss, yeah-
No, it gets more specific than that.
Every single disease has an emotion to it.
Can you talk about it?
Give us a little list?
Yes.
Hamer in Germany came up with the same theories,
which to me is a homeopathic proving of the truth,
which is very, very, very interesting.
And my book will go in and explain how does disease
get from A to Z.
Okay?
We all know that John Wayne had lung cancer.
So did Humphrey Bogart, so did Yul Brynner,
so did Steve McQueen, so did Gary Cooper.
Now, what's the story of them?
The personality sets the pattern.
The lungs are the organ of fear, in acupuncture philosophy
and they clean themselves by crying.
Can you picture any one of these five stars
showing fear or crying?
So instead of showing fear, they'd act like the macho guy
and pick up the cigarette.
It wasn't the cigarette that caused the lung cancer,
it was the attitude that craved the cigarette
that caused the lung cancer.
Ahh.
It's the same personalities.
We all know the ulcer person's wearing a hole in himself.
Every disease.
Left breast cancer's somewhat different
than right breast cancer.
Every single disease has its own personality.
And that personality starts to be reflected,
it changes the physical structure.
Okay, if you're angry, you'll walk around (grunts).
That change in the physical structure is causing
stagnations, which are starting to cause things to happen.
What about breast cancer?
What are the emotions that are often linked
to breast cancer and -
Two major ones: breasts are the organs of nurturing.
Every organ's got a symbol, okay?
The breasts are the organs of nurturing.
Okay, there's a lack of nurturing.
Also, the other aspect,
there's two aspects of breast cancer.
It's the lack of nurturing and the other one is
the male/female territorial problem.
Who's wearing the pants.
Oh, can you-
I hate to say it, but the feminists have created
an epidemic of breast cancer.
Men are men and women are women,
there is no equality.
When a woman is, a man is being man, you women,
hit you over the head with a club and drag ya.
Women's strength is her guile and intuition.
If you get in the face of a man, you're gonna lose.
Yeah.
When a woman goes out to a man's world,
and acts like a man,
that is affecting things.
Okay?
Women now are working like crazy,
instead of being home raising the kids.
There's a lack of nurturing going on.
There's also who's wearing the pants,
where we are now equal.
I have equal rights and you have equal rights
and the game goes on, okay?
So that confusion has caused breast cancer to rise.
Well-
Plain and simple.
As I see it among people that I know,
I see a lot of what you say is true.
There's this conflicted feeling inside.
Yes.
A lot of conflicted feeling, a definite lack
of nurturing, a lack of love in the environment, often.
Yes, and the women, frankly, I think a man should
work on five jobs before a woman has to work on one.
That's what the man's job is.
I didn't hear that part, say-
A man should work on five jobs before a woman
has to work on one.
You can't replace the woman's job, I mean,
you put a man at home over there and he's a horror show.
We all have our own strengths.
Give a man prelabor pains and he'll blow his brains out.
(both chuckle)
We each have our own strengths.
Not one is better than the other.
So making us the same is crazy.
I've often wondered about that.
If one chooses to incarnate as male, that brings a certain
set of priorities and skills and propensities
and the same thing if one chooses to incarnate as female.
And it seems as though we're actually attempting
to make the experience androgenous now.
It's totally ridiculous.
The equality of liberalism is so ridiculous at times.
I mean, let's look at the reality of the show.
Okay, what is the reality of it, you know?
That's what it is.
It's not better or worse, it just is.
I tell any women if they're gonna go out and work,
go out dressed like a woman.
Okay, you know, and do that.
You can still do it that way.
Don't go out there like a man and do it,
so these are the confusing attitudes of society.
Know there are two major emotions.
If you track, if you did psychological testing,
you'll track em down and you'll find em pretty darn
accurate on the emotions involved in disease.
Well, yes, very interesting.
I know, is this mentioned in more detail in your book?
Do you go into
Yes.
[Regina] the descriptions of the various diseases
and emotions underlying?
Yes, I go into great details on it and explain
how it gets through, how it gets through from the structure,
through the meridians, through the organs
and why it goes to where.
Okay and there is no accident
to why someone's getting a hepatitis C
to someone who's getting an ulcer,
there are no accidents.
If there was an accident in nature, the whole earth
can go off its axis.
There cannot be, okay?
Let's talk about diet and nutrition.
I know you have very different view points.
You've said off camera that you're not particularly
popular with the MDs, but you're also not particularly
popular with the alternative therapists on your
views over diet and nutrition.
Could you go ahead and just explain?
First of all, I'm a naturalist more than anything else.
I learn from nature.
What's going on now, all the processed foods, you know,
the nutrition, the American nutrition is a horror show.
Everything we eat, all the chemicals that we're eating,
the amount of fat people that we have here
and that's from the chemicals that we eat
and all the garbage that we're eating and the body's
just bloating up like crazy.
Now, the alternative people are going to the natural stuff.
Let's go vegetarian.
Well, we have canine teeth, we're carnivorous beings,
we've centuries eaten meat.
That's what we're about.
You need to eat the meat, the mouth is made to chew.
I believe, and a lot of the work, I think Weston Price's
work was probably the greatest nutritional work around.
He spends a chunk of his life going around the world
to find the perfect mouth.
He was a dentist that developed root canals.
After a few years of that he said that root canals
are a horror.
He finds 14 civilizations with perfect mouths.
They're in Georgia in Russia, they're equatorial,
there's nothing in common with them,
except their concepts of how they eat.
70% of the food they eat,
animal meats, animal fats, animal proteins and bones.
Interesting cause this goes counter to
everything that's being said today about going into
more greens and more juices and
essentially more of a plant-based diet.
Everything is getting PR and propaganda, okay?
I mentioned before the juicing.
I mean, the concept, if god wants you to drink orange
juice, he would have put a tap on the tree.
I mean, no one has 30 oranges in a sitting.
Juicing is a fad.
Eat the whole thing, the pulp is there for a reason.
How many people have 30 carrots in a sitting?
Right.
Okay, so these concepts,
you know, they're just the same hype
that everyone else gives.
My philosophy is like a bear.
A bear is gonna hibernate for the winter,
eats everything he can, puts all the energies into the fats
and that's where they store the energy.
The human has no enzymes to digest a raw green.
Raw greens have celluloid coats on em.
We do not have cellulase.
The cow has cellulase, can digest the raw green
and if the cow's not using the energy,
put the stores in the fats.
So what if we eat their fat in the form
of butter and so forth?
That's the best thing to eat.
The organic butters-
You're my hero (laughs).
Eat the fat.
I love butter.
I love cream.
Eat the fatty steaks, that's where it's there.
We're taught all of these things, everything
we're taught on fats is wrong.
The cholesterol is a myth.
Right now Lipitor is one of the biggest selling drugs
on the market cause it's all cholesterol.
Number one, cholesterol, normal cholesterol
they say is 180 to 220, almost, most geniuses
run 240 to 300.
Almost every chronic fatigue is under 180 down to 150.
Cholesterol is made by our adrenal glands.
It's our body's own steroid.
You take the adrenal, that out of the adrenal glands
over there and suppress that and you have
no get-up-and-go.
Cholesterol's very important.
As we get old and the internal linings of the blood vessels
crack and cholesterol's just the body's putty.
If you could make the internal lining soft,
you could have 1,000 cholesterol and it makes no difference,
so that's their story, okay?
My good friend, the late Bob Atkins, he was right
on the money, okay?
It's the high protein and the bones.
The bone combinations, there's ways to actually
gelatinize the bones, you can leech the bones,
it's the perfect mineral combination there is.
You wanna, instead of going to a store
and buying minerals, the bones.
How does that go?
The bones of the animal are the same material
as the bones of you.
Yeah, right, but I mean, how
Make a soup.
do you consume them
oh you're saying using them in soups,
like the marrow
In soups, and there are
ways that you can look up recipes.
There's Weston Price has got something
nourishing traditionally took ways to gelatinize the bones.
There's ways that you can gelatinize and use them
as spreads, but basically, eat it the way the animal has it
and it's so much better.
I know the French are really big on that.
They're much more understanding of the various aspects
or portions of the animal that can be utilized.
First of all, if a wolf pack catches an antelope,
the first one there gets the adrenal glands.
The next bunch get the organs,
only the weakest get the meat.
The organs really, this is a concept, you eat the
adrenal glands, that's gonna strengthen your adrenals.
Do you remember the movie Dances With Wolves?
Yes.
He goes on a buffalo hunt over there and they give
him a testicle to eat because they've got
a virility dance that night.
It's a like treats like.
But the animals,
oh, going back to the nutrition aspect,
I think everything, with just the propaganda for both sides
is absolutely horrendous and again, you look at
the French, we talked about before,
5,000 calories at dinner, they're thin as rails
cause they do it over two to three hours.
It's a social experience.
We inhale our food.
Big difference.
Okay?
We should chew our food up to 40 times,
the teeth are made to grind back here,
if you're just eating what I call foo-foo food,
you're mouth's gonna rot because
you're not even exercising it.
Well, that makes sense and also for the enzymes,
Everything.
that kick in, yeah.
You start, digestion starts in the mouth,
you chew it.
And also the intestines work by this,
they work all like this and if you're gonna
give it liquids, the intestines are gonna get floppy.
They like to work.
So how much of a problem are we creating
for ourselves by being essentially in such a hurry,
where we just throw our food down,
have a mocha or a protein drink in the morning,
jam through a fast-food lunch,
what are we doing to ourselves?
Oh, humans, I personally think god gave humans
free will because he's got a sense of humor.
(Regina laughs)
Humans are the only people that do, only creatures
on the planet that do stupid things like that.
We're the only ones on the planet that have
a well-rounded meal.
You think a deer eats from this leaf and that clover
and that tree? (both laugh)
Okay, everything's digested differently.
It's all, we eat when we're supposed to eat,
okay now it's all clockwork.
We live life what I call ass-backwards.
Okay, and it's all programmed.
We live it according to the way TV tells us to live it
and we're missing the show.
Especially in the United States.
So at what point can we say it's best for us
to, I mean, I assume all the time, to go by intuition
in terms of what our body is craving that day,
where do we start picking up our natural intuition,
versus our programmed cravings now?
Oh, you know, I tell people just simple, little things
if you listen to yourself.
You're gonna reach for the chocolate and you're gonna say,
you know, "I want the chocolate."
Ask yourself the question, "should I eat that?"
And the answer will come so quickly you won't believe it.
Most people reject the answer (laughs).
Okay, but if you follow what your cravings are
and then you ask it, you'll know the answers.
I'm simplistic.
You eat, Eskimos eat blubber because they need the fat,
that's why it's there, they're living in the cold.
In southern California, a lot of citrus is grown
because that's what necessary, you eat what the land
prepares for you at the time of the year the land
prepares for you, okay?
That's basically what you eat and you eat the animals,
you eat free-range.
You know, fatty-
What about dairy?
Dairy, I go into unpasteurized stuff if you can get it,
raw milk, raw butter, but the human, again,
is the only creature still has milk after we're weened.
We're weened about the age of 25.
So butter's, you know, milk products are not necessary,
we don't do as well with it.
A lot of people are, yeah,
they're lactose intolerants, but that's not
necessarily true in the fat.
The fat doesn't bring about the same reaction
as the actual milk, right?
Well, you know, first of all, cow's milk and human milk
are two different things.
Goat's milk you're not gonna find this quote
"lactose intolerance," that's just a name again.
Lactose intolerance comes from as the tissue swells
and because it swells in our intestines,
from stress or multiple different things,
you quote "become lactose intolerant."
You can tighten up mucosas too, you have no
problem with that at all.
These are names that are given to things.
I am "lactose intolerant."
You know, I have this and it labels you.
No, that's all.
There's no animal on the planet that's allergic.
There's no animal on the planet that's got
an autoimmune disease.
You think the creator made body, you allergic
to your own body?
These are names that have been given
and that people are brainwashed,
they don't even know how to talk
the right conversation anymore.
Yeah, well I, here, here.
I would like to get on to looking at some of your slides.
Okay.
This is fascinating work you're doing
and do you wanna go ahead and just take a minute
to set up and find a slide or two that
we'll find quite fascinating here?
Yep, I'm gonna show you some pictures here,
lemme get this...
So...
It was about 20 years ago that I started
to look at the blood.
I visited a physicist outside of Montreal, Gaston Naessens,
who had a microscope that magnified up to 60 thousand times.
Once I looked into his microscope and saw things
moving around, my life changed.
No one had ever shown me live blood before.
I had two different German teachers worked with me
side-by-side to show me different things.
In the United States, there are 96 medical schools
in the United States, they stain the blood.
The stain fixed it for mortality.
You never see the blood, and it kills it, it's a poison.
You never see the blood live, you never see how
it deteriorates and if it's not stainable,
it's invisible on an artifact.
There are things in the human blood
that have absolutely no name for it in American literature.
Plus, there are a lot of things in the blood
they've called artifacts.
There's a concept they see in the blood that Germans have
seen now for a century, of debris in the blood
they call symplasts.
And the first teacher I saw in the United States
came over from Sweden in the early 1990s
and he started talking about these artifacts in the blood
and I turned around to a friend next to me and I said,
"you know, I've been studying those artifacts
"for five years."
I wanna show you some pictures that I've seen in the blood
to show you...
Now I wanna know what an artifact in the blood is
and what this means.
There's a lot of debris in the blood.
Okay and they say it's on the slide and they push it off and
people are looking at what I, they're looking at
the leaves and they're missing the forest
when they look at the blood.
They're pieces of debris and I'll give you an example.
This was a piece of debris.
Here's a red blood cell, if you can see that one.
I take capillary blood out of a finger.
Only one red cell can come through a capillary at a time
and yet, you've got pictures like this in the blood.
This was someone, and to show people that these
are not crazy and that a lot of these things are,
really look weird, a lot of them are very accurate.
This is a tooth implant on someone that had to come out,
there was a problem.
This is a picture of it in the blood.
Interesting, now how-
Okay, now look at the accuracy.
There's the butt on that, look at the butt on that.
There are the threads on that.
How did that get
into the blood?
Yeah, the threads,
the tooth on the top.
How did that get in the blood?
Well, it's taken me about 10 years to try to
figure that one out and another 10 years to try to
explain it in my newest book (laughs), okay?
It's not an easy concept.
What is it?
Well, let's go further on that one.
That's one picture, let's show you another picture.
This is a picture, this gal came to me,
she was 10 weeks pregnant.
In the blood.
There is a picture of the fetus.
That is the umbilical cord,
that's the placenta and that's in the uterus.
And that's showing up wh-
In a drop of blood.
Let's go further, okay?
That's where you do it over here.
Let's go here, in the same drop of blood.
There's the placenta, there's the cord,
that's the baby in the uterus.
Okay?
And that's in, that is-
One drop of blood.
This is actually another shot,
this is from the placenta and there's the same shape
coming off of there.
The same shape in multiple drops of blood?
Right, in one drop.
This was all in one drop.
Oh, on one drop.
The uterus is a pear-shaped organ.
There is the fetus, there is the placenta in the uterus.
In the blood.
Now, you wrote a book called Holographic Blood.
What are we looking at here?
Well, this is, first of all, the book, who's title will
be changed to Blood Mysteries.
Right, the old title.
Edgar Cayce, America's most prolific psychic stated,
"the physician of the future from one drop of blood
"will diagnose the condition of the entire physical body."
There is a hologram in the pupil of the eye, in the iris.
There's one in the ear, there's one in the tongue,
there's one in the palm, there's one in the foot,
the Chinese have known this for centuries.
Well, there's one in the blood, too.
Of course there's one in the blood.
The blood is very dynamic.
It's not only in the blood, but you can visualize
all of these things that are there.
So what (stammers),
okay, what is the emanation that's showing itself
as this image?
Is this, what is it?
Is it energetic? Is it holographic-
Yes, Bjorn Nordenstrom, in Sweden,
basically, Bjorn Nordenstrom, in Sweden,
about a couple decades ago,
actually picked up the electrical body of man.
There is, each cell is differently charged.
The blood is like an electrical cable.
They run, the different cells will run in different layers.
In nature, energy's just the pattern for physical.
Electricity sets the pattern for the physical.
If I have a magnet and I put iron filings on it,
it will set a pattern.
If I put stones on it, nothing will happen.
Well, the liver's got an electrical pattern.
Every organ's got an electrical pattern.
In acupuncture philosophy, every organ's got an emotion.
If you're angry, it's the liver.
If you're an angry person, the electrical pattern
of the liver will be in the cable and as it precipitates out
it will form a shape of a liver.
That is about the best, these things that there are
pictures of things that are impossible to be in the blood,
but yet I'll show you the pictures of them.
How did they get there?
I don't believe they're there as much as they precipitate
out when it comes on the slide.
More energetically?
Yes, the energy's there.
Like an electrical emanation almost.
Right, that's exactly right.
Would you show us some more?
This is fascinating.
Okay.
This was...
my secretary when she was six weeks pregnant
and this is the sonogram.
That is the fetus in the blood, matching the sonogram.
Huh, that's pretty obvious.
Okay?
This is her three months pregnant.
There's the head, the neck, there's the arms,
that's the low back, that's the butt and there are the legs.
This is six months pregnant, you've actually got eyes
on there, there's a nose on there and it's a boy,
there's a penis.
Wow.
In there.
Let's go further, let's go back on a couple things.
(mouse clicking)
That was her having her period.
Right in the blood.
Wow, wow.
This one is very interesting.
See this picture, this is a worm.
This is a picture of a tapeworm.
Tapeworms are normally 100 to 200 centimeters in size.
How did this get in the blood?
In fact, here's a picture of the tapeworm,
look at the segments.
In the blood, in the blood.
Wow.
Okay, here's another one,
this is a roundworm.
And I'll show you a picture of that any time.
How did the roundworm get in the blood?
Look at the size of that.
Yeah.
And if I show the exact pictures,
it looks exactly like a worm.
It couldn't physically be there.
No.
But it's meaning something.
It's meaning something.
Now, even really more outrageous
than this is that you have seen things in the blood,
or in imagery, before they've occurred?
Well, the most amazing picture, that's the one
you're referring to.
Yeah.
Let me see if I can go way back on that one.
Yeah, that's pretty shocking.
Let's see if I can get back on that.
So this is the picture we're mentioning.
Can you explain what's going on here?
This is the single-most exciting picture
I've ever taken.
Okay, this is a picture of a leg bone, called a femur.
Okay, this is a picture of it in Grey's Anatomy.
Okay, you can see the similarity and the accuracy of it.
This is two,
you know I'm accurate.
Identical.
Plus, this has got a crack in it.
See it broken?
Mmhmm.
This came from a patient of mine who sent me
a slide in the mail, which I can do that,
they sent FedEx it to me
and I looked at the slide and I called her up and I said,
"Maureen, did you ever break your leg, or your arm,
"or anything like that?"
"No, no, nope."
But a month later her son calls up,
"my mom just fell on the ice, guess what just happened?"
Huh.
That picture was taken one month
before the injury.
Now, the implications here are huge,
can you talk about this?
(laughs) The only-
As best you can.
I mean, this is where, I like the new title,
Blood Mysteries: Myth, Magic or Reality.
What the heck is this about?
This is the most exciting picture I've ever taken,
because it tells you that thought is everything.
Thought is real.
Might she have been afraid of falling
on the ice or something?
What she wanted, no, it wasn't.
She was close to 80 years old, okay?
And we talked about different things, like example,
she actually talked about stem cells for her.
She didn't want that because she was happy
that everyone was taking care of her.
Okay?
Plain and simple, that if she was on her own
and she was strong, all the people wouldn't
be taking care of her.
She would have sons come over, people would come over,
everyone would help her.
Well, broken leg'll do it.
Right.
She didn't want
to go the way of getting stem cells
and getting regenerated cause she was happy
with everyone taking care of her.
Oooh.
So the thought was, "no, I'm not going that way,
"this is fine," and then she breaks the leg.
Aunt Mary has got cancer.
Why, because everyone visits Aunt Mary.
Otherwise, no one paid attention to Aunt Mary.
My first cancer case I got into remission,
she was 10 years on and off with the disease,
we called her up and said, "everything's clean."
And she came in, she looked at me and says,
"Dr. Bigelsen, now what do I do?"
Hmmm.
Her whole life was cancer, so.
This was interesting.
Why this happened?
That was my thought of why this happened to this gal
is basically, no, she didn't want
to get better.
A belief system
that to be infirmed means you're connected with others and
they care for you.
Whatever it is, yes
There's a secondary gain to most illness.
Yes, I think that pretty much
explains it right there.
That was it and the picture's so accurate,
you can't, you know, how did that get there.
And again, only one red cell can come through the capillary
at a time, that's the size of a red cell,
how did that get in there?
And the beauty and the perfection of that picture.
That is an amazing slide.
Can we talk about some of the mysteries a bit?
Sure.
Historically, the blood is life.
Can you talk about any of the, whether it's Shamanic
traditions or the Egyptians and embalming and,
or whatever you choose, a little bit about the mystery
of blood from the past, myths and mysteries-
It's always been sacred.
I'm Jewish and Jewish and Kabbalistic Mysticism,
the soul is in the blood, the spirit's in the blood.
That's part of the reasons the Kosher food
is done certain ways, they drain the blood.
All the life is in the blood, almost in every religion
since time immemorial that there's been
a sacredness in the blood.
That's about the simplest answer I can give to you.
(stammers) In Judaism, for example,
and again, and a lot of,
the whole Christianity's based on that,
instantaneously, you've gotta drain the blood
out of the body.
And the ancient Egyptians understood this
and started embalming.
Instantaneously
draining the blood out of the body, right.
Instantaneously you drain it out and then
you bury the body rapidly, but it's the blood,
whatever it is-
It's carrying this force.
It's carrying that force, that's the sacred force.
I can't give you further answers.
It blows me away that everything is in the blood.
It tells you the whole story.
Okay, but it's been historical and when I started
to see this and started to try to put the meanings together
in the past 20 years, it keeps on, ohh,
it gets more and more exciting.
Okay, the more I learn about it, of how the body is working,
and the blood will tell you every single aspect of
how it's working and why it's doing.
When you see blood that has issues (laughs),
can most people, through attitude and a little bit
of sunshine and having some fun,
really correct a whole lot of what's going
wrong in the body?
Only to a certain extent.
Edgar Cayce said we have an electrical body
or an energy body and a physical body.
You treat the electrical body and the energy body
with electricity, you treat the physical body physically.
Very important and you must treat them on their
both plains.
You can change your attitude, but you can only go
to a certain extent.
If you've had a gallbladder surgery
and you've had scars on your body,
you can't get past that scar, the emotion behind the scar
unless there's certain ways that we can actually treat it
and start to loosen that memory up.
Is that where the acupuncture and
homeopathy and osteopath work comes in?
They all come together, right, yes.
And German philosophy we do things like
neural therapy, we treat the scars to loosen it up
and get and open things up that way.
The whole body is a pulsating, expanding, constantly,
eight to 10 times a minute, it's constantly moving.
When it scars or injures, it obstructs and it is those
obstructions that you get, the stagnations and the disease.
You have to break these scars, break the openings,
let the pulsations go back again.
Most disease, especially in the United States,
are created by physicians.
I was just going to say that.
Take the subject of Cesarean births, which are now
encouraged, they're now optional.
The stupidity of that, that man, the pompous arrogance
of man that thinks they know more how to deliver a baby
than the creator taught us how
is absolutely horrendous.
That you have to cut a woman open and pull the baby out.
23% of newborns are born that way in the US.
In the Unites States, and I'm a surgeon by trade,
95% of surgery's a nightmare.
All disease, the body heals by inflammation.
It gets ill by suppressed inflammation.
When you cut into the body, you are creating an inflammatory
reaction that gets locked into the body.
There are more surgical interventions in
the United States and it's one of the reasons why
we're one of the sicker populations.
Dentists in the United States, Orthodontists.
You'll go to an Orthodontist and they'll tell you
the kid, too many teeth in the mouth,
let's take the teeth out.
The creator never put too many teeth in your mouth.
If you can take braces and change the shape of the mouth,
well why can't you take braces and stretch the mouth open?
There are dentists around the world that do that,
stretch the mouth open and the teeth will come in straight.
But the US wacks em out.
They do surgeries, the invasions of the body.
Let's tie off the tubes, you don't need that.
You don't need, let's take the uterus out,
okay, you're not gonna need that anymore.
The Lord wanted the uterus out, he'd put a zipper
on the darn thing and you'd take it out when
you're 50 years old.
The intervention of man into the body is an absolute,
absolute horror show and it's created so many diseases.
Right now the third leading cause of death
in the United States are physicians in hospitals.
And that is a fact.
So what happens when we're left
with all these scars?
Going back to the subject you were talking about before.
There are ways to treat scars, it's called neural therapy,
scar therapy, there's ways we inject em,
certain things to loose em up, but scars will always tend
to pull back in and so about every three months to a year
you need these treated.
Osteopathically you need to open up the areas.
The human being is an electromagnet.
All living things are electromagnetic.
Dead things have no charge to it.
Waste products will accumulate at the scar.
They're dead.
You can fast and not clean it up.
I can do one scar injection and get more garbage out of you,
a lot of times, because the waste products are just at
the scar, they're sort of dammed up and blocked there.
Let's go back to Cesareans, we have a quarter
of the women giving birth out there that will have
these horrendous scars and they've cut through
a lot of tissue there.
What kind of things gather there?
Well, let me just tell you what's going on with
women in the past 50 years.
It's a nightmare what's gone on with them.
Number one, the whole sexuality has changed.
Okay, abortions are now common.
What an abortion is, you're taking a metal rake
and you're scraping the hell out of it.
I have more women ill from those things
and the chronic inflammation.
I have two cases of IUDs that have caused hepatitis C.
The amount of inflammation that it creates.
Okay, the invasion of the woman's body.
They're tying the tubes off, they're putting these
bellybutton surgeries in there.
Two out of every three Lyme disease patients are women.
Almost all Lyme disease is caused by so much inflammation
in the body, mostly dental work and female surgery.
Another thing that goes on with women,
not just the c-sections, the tampons.
You wanna stop the HPV?
Don't give em a vaccine, just get everything out of there.
Right, makes total
sense.
Plain and simple.
Yeah, plain and simple.
Plain and simply, HPV is just a result of
a deteriorated terrain, that so many things
have been in there.
And the cutting apart of it, um,
it was men that were running the system
is about the best answer I can give you.
Okay and they made women the guinea pigs
and I come back on the sexuality thing,
god forbid a man should wear a condom in the 60s.
Let's give the women the pill, let's give her the IUD,
let's give her the abortion.
Okay, and all of those things now, what's going on
with the women and c-sections, an absolute horror show.
I have never had a patient that needed a c-section.
All my patients go to either the osteopath or
someone, a chiropractor, someone who knows
how to manipulate right.
They keep the baby lined up right.
After you give birth, you work on the woman,
she never, ever gets postpartum depression,
you get it from the coccyx being jammed up.
And you work on the baby and the kid gets a 180 IQ,
becomes creative and you put a do-not-disturb
sign until death.
(Regina laughs)
And you do not need, you do not need c-sections,
this is a ridiculous concept.
(stammers) Everything is done defensive medicine.
You can't, we've gotta do this, we gotta do, oh!
The baby may get caught, the baby don't know this.
Right, well, it's highly profitable.
Oh yes, it's all fear tactics.
It's all, "well, no one knows, no one knows,
"let's do this, let's do that."
You know, to me, it's become a Rodney Dangerfield joke.
Rodney Dangerfield goes to the doctor and says,
"hey doc, you got anything to stop me from aging?"
And the doctor gives him a gun.
(both laugh)
Let's do preventive medicine.
They haven't found, traditional medicine hasn't found
the cause of one chronic disease in the 20th century
nor the cure of one chronic disease in the 20th century.
What makes them the experts?
Okay, plain and simple.
I tell people, your car's transmission failed, you go to
a mechanic, he says, "I've never fixed a transmission
"in my life."
Would you leave the car there?
Of course not.
Would you ask him his expert opinion?
Why do we listen to these expert opinions
and these failures?
It's all smoke and mirrors.
(mysterious music)
Smoke and mirrors.
Dr. Bigelsen's extraordinary work is highly regarded
and often referred to by Bruce Lipton,
who you can also see on our site,
as well as with the famed researcher, Dr. Masaru Emoto.
Please click on the links below to learn more about his work
and order a copy of his groundbreaking book.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(mysterious music)